---
title: "Operations Best Practices: Notification Buffering for Transient Alerts"
excerpt: ""
---
#Problem Statement

Transient alerts are rapid and non-actionable events that are typically generated by monitoring systems. These types of alerts often resolve themselves in a short period of time and do not require human interaction. This can create alert fatigue and it is best practice to filter out these types of alerts. 

#Best Practices

One solution to reducing transient alerts is notification buffering. By adding a delay before notifications are sent, the transient alert can be absorbed. If the alerts resolve themselves in the notification buffer time-frame, no notifications will be generated. The standard delay is 120 seconds.

1. Identify an unused user account or create a placeholder user with no notification rules.  This user account will be used as a placeholder in the alert buffer.
2. Click **Configuration** and then select **Escalation Policies**.
3. Identify the escalation policy where the alert buffer will be placed and select the dropdown for the **Settings gear icon** and select **Edit**.
[block:image]
{
  "images": [
    {
      "image": [
        "https://files.readme.io/fb242ac-OHMS-Transient-Edit-Esc-Policy.png",
        "OHMS-Transient-Edit-Esc-Policy.png",
        1658,
        256,
        "#f6f5f6"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
4. Click **Add a new Escalation Rule**.
[block:image]
{
  "images": [
    {
      "image": [
        "https://files.readme.io/fc56dce-OHMS-Transient-Add-esc-Rule.png",
        "OHMS-Transient-Add-esc-Rule.png",
        1708,
        1182,
        "#f9faf9"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
5. In the **Notify the following users or schedules** field, enter the **placeholder user** (identified in Step 1 above).
[block:image]
{
  "images": [
    {
      "image": [
        "https://files.readme.io/e7c4c04-OHMS-Transient-Add-User.png",
        "OHMS-Transient-Add-User.png",
        1686,
        318,
        "#f7f7f8"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
6. If there are other escalation rules present, ensure that this rule is in the first position by using the :fa-bars: to move it and click **Save**.

Alert buffering is a technique which introduces a delay into the notification pipeline, enabling  absorption for non-actionable noise. The escalation policies where this technique is applied will continue to function normally once the delay interval is finished.  In the example of a two minute delay, any resolution that comes in after two minutes would generate an interrupt notification. If incidents open and close within two minutes, the on-call responder will not be notified.

It is important to note that all services using the escalation policy will be affected.  If the object is to apply alert buffering to a single service and the escalation policy is shared with other services, it will be necessary to create a unique escalation policy for the service in question.